# Helios

Helios: Wearable Haptic for the Assistance of the Visually Impaired

Visually Impaired individuals face a multitude of challenges in their everyday life. One of the many challenges they face are sensing and securing objects around them, whether it be at their house or in an outside environment. We wonder: would it be possible for a wearable haptic to assist them in sensing, recognizing, and securing different objects in their surroundings? Creating such a device can assist the visually impaired in accomplishing their daily activities and boost their living standards. The objective of our project is to create a closed circuit, haptic device situated on the user’s wrist in which the user can speak into, and through AI (specifically, natural language processing and computer vision) the device should direct the user towards their desired object. The wearable haptic should be able to assist the user in detecting objects mixed in with other objects within a close distance. When the user speaks into our built-in microphone attached to a raspberry pi, the device recognizes the input and searches within our database of previously stored objects. Then the Raspberry Pi displays those signals to our haptic buzzers situated on the user’s wrist to localize and direct their hand to the object. These buzzers serve the simple command of either going left, right, or forward in relation to the desired object. By using many systems working with each other, our project named Helios – God of sight in Greek mythology – will boost the living experience of visually impaired individuals.
